README.md, before:

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/opentok/opentok-hardware-setup.js.svg)](https://travis-ci.org/opentok/opentok-hardware-setup.js)
[![Test Coverage](https://codeclimate.com/github/opentok/opentok-hardware-setup.js/badges/coverage.svg)](https://codeclimate.com/github/opentok/opentok-hardware-setup.js/coverage)

OpenTok Hardware Setup
======================

The OpenTok Hardware Setup component provides a user interface for clients
using the [OpenTok.js] [1] library to select the camera and microphone. The
client can use the camera and microphone to publish a stream to an OpenTok.js
session.

Demo
----

You can see the component running [here](https://opentok.github.io/opentok-hardware-setup.js/).

Building the component
----------------------

This project uses [Node.js][2] and [gulp][3] to build the distribution
versions of the component.

Run the following to build the component:

    npm install -g gulp
    npm install
    gulp

This creates a .js file that is useable with JavaScript module loaders and
puts it in the ./dist directory, along with the .css file and a minified version
of the .js file.

Copy the files in the ./dist directory to the appropriate paths on your
web server.

Note that a pre-built version of this file is hosted at static.opentok.com.
Load both the CSS and JavaScript files (in addition to the OpenTok.js library):

```html
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"
  href="https://static.opentok.com/hardware-setup/v1/css/opentok-hardware-setup.css">
<script
  src="https://static.opentok.com/hardware-setup/v1/js/opentok-hardware-setup.js"></script>
```

Browserify
----------

You can copy the CSS in this example to `public/css/hardware-setup.css`
automatically using NPM:

```json
{
  "dependencies":{"opentok-hardware-setup.js":"~1.0.0"},
  "scripts":{
    "postinstall":"cp -r node_modules/opentok-hardware-setup.js/css/opentok-hardware-setup.css public/css/opentok-hardware-setup.css"
  }
}
```

Using the component
-------------------

Use the component along with the [OpenTok.js] [1] library.

*Important restriction:* The Hardware Setup component is only available on sites loaded
via HTTPS.

### createOpentokHardwareSetupComponent()

To initialize the Hardware Setup component, call the
`createOpentokHardwareSetupComponent()` method. This method takes the following
parameters:

* `targetElement` -- The DOM element in which to insert the hardware setup
component. (See the insertMode property of the next parameter, options.)

* `options` -- An optional argument that specifies how the component will be
inserted in the HTML DOM, in relation to the targetElement parameter. You can
set this parameter to one of the following values:

  * `"replace"` -- The component replaces contents of the targetElement. This is
the default.
  * `"after"` -- The component is a new element inserted after the targetElement in
the HTML DOM. (Both the component and targetElement have the same parent
element.)
  * `"before"` -- The component is a new element inserted before the targetElement
in the HTML DOM. (Both the component and targetElement have the same parent
element.)
  * `"append"` -- The component is a new element added as a child of the
targetElement. If there are other child elements, the component is appended as
the last child element of the targetElement.

* `completionHandler` -- A function that is called is called when the component
is rendered on the page or on error in calling to the method. Upon error, this
function is passed an error object which has a `message` property, which can
have one of the following values:

  * "No element provided to place component"
  * "This browser does not support getMediaDevices APIs"
  * "There are no audio or video devices available".

  When the component is rendered on the page successfully, the completion
  handler is called with no error object.

The method returns a HardwareSetup object, which has the following methods:
`audioSource()`, `videoSource()`, and `destroy()`.

Example:

```javascript
// Replace this with the ID of the target DOM element for the component
var element = document.querySelector('#hardware-setup');

var options = {
  insertMode: 'append' // Or use another insertMode setting.
};

var component = createOpentokHardwareSetupComponent(element, options, function(error) {
  if (error) {
    console.error('Error: ', error);
    element.innerHTML = '<strong>Error getting devices</strong>: '
      error.message;
    return;
  }
  // Add a button to call component.destroy() to close the component.
});
```

### HardwareSetup.audioSource()

Returns an object representing the selected audio source. This object has a
`deviceId` property, which is the unique audio device ID (a string). You can
store this string in a cookie for use in a future session. You can pass the
audio source object or its `deviceId` property as a value for the `audioSource`
property of the properties object passed into the `OT.initPublisher()` method.

Example:

```javascript
// component is the object returned by createOpentokHardwareSetupComponent()
var publisherOptions = {
  audioSource: component.audioSource(),
  videoSource: component.videoSource()
};
OT.initPublisher(targetElement, publisherOptions);
```

### HardwareSetup.videoSource()

Returns an object representing the selected video source. This object has a
`deviceId` property, which is the unique video device ID (a string). You can
store this string in a cookie for use in a future session. You can pass the
video source object or its `deviceId` property as a value for the `videoSource`
property of the properties object passed into the `OT.initPublisher()` method.

Example:

```javascript
// component is the object returned by createOpentokHardwareSetupComponent()
var publisherOptions = {
  audioSource: component.audioSource(),
  videoSource: component.videoSource()
};
OT.initPublisher(targetElement, publisherOptions);
```

### HardwareSetup.destroy()

Closes the hardware setup component (if visible) and removes it from the
HTML DOM.

Example:

```javascript
// component is the object returned by createOpentokHardwareSetupComponent()
component.destroy();
```

Sample
------

See the index.html file in this repository for sample code.

License
-------

The MIT License (MIT)

Copyright (c) 2015 TokBox, Inc.

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.


[1]: https://tokbox.com/opentok/libraries/client/js/
[2]: http://nodejs.org/
[3]: http://gulpjs.com/

Commit message:

Adding info about the version of the component hosted at static.tokbox.com.

README.md, after:

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/opentok/opentok-hardware-setup.js.svg)](https://travis-ci.org/opentok/opentok-hardware-setup.js)
[![Test Coverage](https://codeclimate.com/github/opentok/opentok-hardware-setup.js/badges/coverage.svg)](https://codeclimate.com/github/opentok/opentok-hardware-setup.js/coverage)

OpenTok Hardware Setup
======================

The OpenTok Hardware Setup component provides a user interface for clients
using the [OpenTok.js] [1] library to select the camera and microphone. The
client can use the camera and microphone to publish a stream to an OpenTok.js
session.

A pre-built version of the hardware setup component is hosted at
https://static.opentok.com/hardware-setup/v1/js/opentok-hardware-setup.min.js.

Demo
----

You can see the component running [here](https://opentok.github.io/opentok-hardware-setup.js/).

Building the component
----------------------

This project uses [Node.js][2] and [gulp][3] to build the distribution
versions of the component.

Run the following to build the component:

    npm install -g gulp
    npm install
    gulp

This creates a .js file that is useable with JavaScript module loaders and
puts it in the ./dist directory, along with the .css file and a minified version
of the .js file.

Copy the files in the ./dist directory to the appropriate paths on your
web server.

Note that a pre-built version of this file is hosted at static.opentok.com.
Load both the CSS and JavaScript files (in addition to the OpenTok.js library):

```html
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"
  href="https://static.opentok.com/hardware-setup/v1/css/opentok-hardware-setup.css">
<script
  src="https://static.opentok.com/hardware-setup/v1/js/opentok-hardware-setup.js"></script>
```

Browserify
----------

You can copy the CSS in this example to `public/css/hardware-setup.css`
automatically using NPM:

```json
{
  "dependencies":{"opentok-hardware-setup.js":"~1.0.0"},
  "scripts":{
    "postinstall":"cp -r node_modules/opentok-hardware-setup.js/css/opentok-hardware-setup.css public/css/opentok-hardware-setup.css"
  }
}
```

Using the component
-------------------

Use the component along with the [OpenTok.js] [1] library.

*Important restriction:* The Hardware Setup component is only available on sites loaded
via HTTPS.

### createOpentokHardwareSetupComponent()

To initialize the Hardware Setup component, call the
`createOpentokHardwareSetupComponent()` method. This method takes the following
parameters:

* `targetElement` -- The DOM element in which to insert the hardware setup
component. (See the insertMode property of the next parameter, options.)

* `options` -- An optional argument that specifies how the component will be
inserted in the HTML DOM, in relation to the targetElement parameter. You can
set this parameter to one of the following values:

  * `"replace"` -- The component replaces contents of the targetElement. This is
the default.
  * `"after"` -- The component is a new element inserted after the targetElement in
the HTML DOM. (Both the component and targetElement have the same parent
element.)
  * `"before"` -- The component is a new element inserted before the targetElement
in the HTML DOM. (Both the component and targetElement have the same parent
element.)
  * `"append"` -- The component is a new element added as a child of the
targetElement. If there are other child elements, the component is appended as
the last child element of the targetElement.

* `completionHandler` -- A function that is called is called when the component
is rendered on the page or on error in calling to the method. Upon error, this
function is passed an error object which has a `message` property, which can
have one of the following values:

  * "No element provided to place component"
  * "This browser does not support getMediaDevices APIs"
  * "There are no audio or video devices available".

  When the component is rendered on the page successfully, the completion
  handler is called with no error object.

The method returns a HardwareSetup object, which has the following methods:
`audioSource()`, `videoSource()`, and `destroy()`.

Example:

```javascript
// Replace this with the ID of the target DOM element for the component
var element = document.querySelector('#hardware-setup');

var options = {
  insertMode: 'append' // Or use another insertMode setting.
};

var component = createOpentokHardwareSetupComponent(element, options, function(error) {
  if (error) {
    console.error('Error: ', error);
    element.innerHTML = '<strong>Error getting devices</strong>: '
      error.message;
    return;
  }
  // Add a button to call component.destroy() to close the component.
});
```

### HardwareSetup.audioSource()

Returns an object representing the selected audio source. This object has a
`deviceId` property, which is the unique audio device ID (a string). You can
store this string in a cookie for use in a future session. You can pass the
audio source object or its `deviceId` property as a value for the `audioSource`
property of the properties object passed into the `OT.initPublisher()` method.

Example:

```javascript
// component is the object returned by createOpentokHardwareSetupComponent()
var publisherOptions = {
  audioSource: component.audioSource(),
  videoSource: component.videoSource()
};
OT.initPublisher(targetElement, publisherOptions);
```

### HardwareSetup.videoSource()

Returns an object representing the selected video source. This object has a
`deviceId` property, which is the unique video device ID (a string). You can
store this string in a cookie for use in a future session. You can pass the
video source object or its `deviceId` property as a value for the `videoSource`
property of the properties object passed into the `OT.initPublisher()` method.

Example:

```javascript
// component is the object returned by createOpentokHardwareSetupComponent()
var publisherOptions = {
  audioSource: component.audioSource(),
  videoSource: component.videoSource()
};
OT.initPublisher(targetElement, publisherOptions);
```

### HardwareSetup.destroy()

Closes the hardware setup component (if visible) and removes it from the
HTML DOM.

Example:

```javascript
// component is the object returned by createOpentokHardwareSetupComponent()
component.destroy();
```

Sample
------

See the index.html file in this repository for sample code.

License
-------

The MIT License (MIT)

Copyright (c) 2015 TokBox, Inc.

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.


[1]: https://tokbox.com/opentok/libraries/client/js/
[2]: http://nodejs.org/
[3]: http://gulpjs.com/
